There are four heart compartments, or chambers.
The upper two are the atria,
and the lower two are the ventricles.
Blood comes into the chambers and is then pumped
to the rest of the body to supply nourishment.
The flow of blood inside the heart
is controlled by four thin, flexible valves
that open and close with each heartbeat.
They are the tricuspid valve,
the pulmonic valve,
the mitral valve,
and the aortic valve.
The aortic valve is composed of
3 tissue flaps, called leaflets.
It is located between the left ventricle
and the aorta,
the blood vessel that carries blood to the rest of the body.
The aortic valve opens to move blood
from the heart into the aorta
and normally closes tightly between each heartbeat,
to keep the blood from flowing back into the heart.